# Screening Verification/Scanning

## Notation

This document makes use of encoding notation, written as a sequence of space separated 2 digit hexadecimal numbers, enclosed in square brackets. The length of the encoding is the number of octets, and the octets are written from the least significant position in the file to the most significant position. 

For example, `[00]` indicates a lone 0x00 byte, and `[12 34]` indicates a 0x12 byte followed by a 0x34 byte. 

Structures within the file may be defined using C-like syntax, with the types, `uint8_t`, `uint16_t`, `uint32_t`, and `uint64_t`. Structures are layed out exactly, as written, in memory, with no padding between adjacent fields and no padding following the stucture. Arrays may also be defined, using C syntax. If the length of an array is the name of a field, then the length is given by the value of that field.

Multibyte integers are encoded in Little-Endian (least significant byte first) Byte Order, and assume that 8 bits constitute 1 byte.

### Examples

Example 1:

```c
struct version{
    uint8_t major;
    uint8_t minor;
};
```

The version struct is layed out as 1 byte for the major field, and 1 byte


```c
struct string{
    leb128 len;
    uint8_t bytes[len];
};
```
The string struct is layed out as an LEB128 length, followed by that many bytes.


## LEB128 (Little-Endian base 128)

Numbers in this document, including string lengths, may be encoded using Little-Endian Base 128, as follows:
If a byte has the most significant bit set, it indicates that the number is continued. Otherwise, the byte is the last byte in a number. 
The values of 7 least significant bits of each byte in a value are combined starting with the least significant bits at the low-order position, and shifting each subsquent byte left by 7, ignoring the most significant bit. 
The maximum value of any integer in this document is 2^32.

Signed Integers are encoded the same, and use the most significant bit of the entire integer as the sign bit.

Unsigned integers are described using the type `leb128`, or `uleb128`. Signed integers are described using the type `sleb128`.

Examples (in encoding notation):

- 127 (unsigned): `[7f]`
- 65535 (signed): `[ff ff 03]`
- -1 (signed): `[7f]`

## Strings

The string type is used to indicate variable length text, it consists of an unsigned leb128 encoded length, followed by that many bytes encoded as `UTF-8` text. 

In struct notation, the string type is defined as follows:

```c
struct string{
    leb128 len;
    uint8_t chars[len];
};
```

Strings SHOULD NOT contain embedded NUL (0) bytes.

## Boolean Values

Boolean values are encoded as 1 byte incidating true (`[01]`) or false (`[00]`). Only the encodings for true and false are valid, a file with any other encoding is invalid. The type `bool` indicates a boolean value.

## Format Header

The first part of the format is an 8 byte header. The header is defined by the structure defined below

```c
struct validation_header{
   uint8_t mag[2];
   uint8_t ver[2];
   uint8_t signature_mode;
   uint8_t flags;
};
```

The mag field shall be exactly the bytes `[43 56]`. The ver field encodes the version of the format as a binary integer. The first byte `ver[0]` is the major version, minus 1, and the second byte is the minor version. The current version of the format is `1.0`, encoded as `[00 00]`. 

`signature_mode` is an enumeration of the algorithm used in signing the file. It can be obtained by ORing the hash algorithm in the least significant 4 bits, with the signature/verification algorithim in the most significant 4 bits

Valid Hash Algorithms:

| Value | Algorithm          |
|-------|--------------------|
|  0    | Sha256             |
|  1    | Sha512             |
|  2    | Sha3-256           |
|  3    | Sha3-512           |

Valid Signature/Verification Algorithms:

| Value | Algorithm          |
|-------|--------------------|
| 0     | HMAC               |
| 16    | Rsa1024            |
| 32    | Rsa2048            |
| 48    | ECDSA (Curve24419) |

Other values are reserved for future use

The flags byte contains flags describing the file:

| Bit   | Description         |
|-------|---------------------|
| 0x01  | One time token (OTT)|


## Screening Information

Immediately following the header is the screening information about the verification. It encodes information about the user, and the time screening was completed.

The screening information is encoded as given by the following struct:
```c
struct screening{
    uint64_t time_seconds;
    bool screen_ok;
    bool screen_vacinated;
    string id;
    string name;
    string phone;
    string email;
};
```

`time_seconds` is the number of unsigned seconds since `1970-01-01T00:00:00Z`, not counting leap seconds (unix time).

`screen_ok` is set if the screening questions are passed and the user should be permitted to enter the event. 
`screen_vacinated` is set if vaccination information is available. 
`id` is an identifier for the user, with an undefined form and meaning
`name` is the entered full name of the user.
`phone` is a contact phone number or an empty string. 
The value is prefixed with `C` if the phone is indicated to recieve voice calls only, and `T` if the phone is indicated to recieve Text/SMS Messages only (absence of any prefix indicates either method of communication is acceptable). The phone number always contains a
 location prefix (1 for North America), and does not contain any characters other than the digits 0-9, and the option `C` or `T` prefixes.
`email` is a contact email address or an empty string.

## Validation/Signature

The final part of the file is a validation/signature. If the OTT bit is set, a 32-byte token preceeds the signature field. 
Then an leb128 value gives the length, in bytes, of the signature. 
That many bytes follow, and contain a binary signature of the header, screening info, and one time token, signed by a key provided by the server. The key is not included in the format, even for Public/Private Signature algorithms

